VOOM v2.0
=========

VOOM now runs against a real backend: accounts, ride requests, Chapa payments and
receipts are real and stored in a database, not simulated on the device.

BEFORE YOU RUN THE APP
1. Deploy the backend in backend/ (see backend/README.md) and get its URL, or ask
   whoever manages VOOM's backend for the deployed URL.
2. Copy .env.example to .env in this folder and set:
     EXPO_PUBLIC_VOOM_API_URL=https://your-deployed-backend-url
   The app will show a clear "Backend not configured" screen instead of starting
   if this is missing.

OPEN ON YOUR PHONE WITH EXPO GO
1. Install or update Expo Go from the App Store or Google Play.
2. Connect the phone and Mac to the same Wi-Fi network.
3. Keep all project files together in one folder.
4. Double-click OPEN IN EXPO GO.command.
5. Keep Terminal open and scan the QR code with Expo Go.

MAC BROWSER REVIEW
Double-click REVIEW VOOM.command.

First launch downloads the app dependencies. Node.js and internet are required.
The launcher never asks for sudo, changes global npm settings, or deletes your cache.
It retries temporary downloads, reuses a private VOOM cache, and records a successful
install only after npm finishes. It cannot make an unavailable network work.

If macOS blocks the launcher, right-click it and choose Open. If macOS still
refuses, review the item in System Settings > Privacy & Security. Only approve
files you trust; do not disable system-wide security.

IMPORTANT — EXPO CLIENT COMPATIBILITY
This edition uses Expo SDK 57 / React Native 0.86 and is intended for the current
Expo Go app. It is not an APK, IPA, or standalone Mac app. The launcher starts a
development server, and your phone loads VOOM by scanning its QR code.

USING VOOM
- Create an account or sign in (email/password or phone number with a one-time
  code) — the app requires a real account before you can request a ride.
- Open VOOM: Ethiopia / Addis Ababa is the default. Uganda is also available.
- Tap Use my location and allow location access when requested.
- Search a destination, use Search address on device, or choose a map pin.
- Confirm the destination pin, then tap/drag the pickup pin to the exact entrance.
- Choose a ride and payment method, then request it. This creates a real trip on
  the backend that a driver account can see and accept.
- To try the driver side, sign up a second account with the Driver role (a real
  vehicle model/plate is required at signup) and use "Drive with VOOM" from the
  menu to accept, start and complete ride requests.
- Riders pay by cash (settled directly with the driver) or Chapa (opens a hosted
  checkout in your browser); a receipt is generated automatically once paid.

See README.md for what's implemented and what isn't yet; MAPS-SETUP.md covers the
optional Google Places/routing integration; backend/README.md covers backend setup.
